Port MASTG-TEST-0004: Sensitive Data Leaked via Embedded Libraries (android) (#3485)
OWASP/mastg: demos/android/MASVS-PRIVACY/MASTG-DEMO-00de3/MASTG-DEMO-00de3.md

---
platform: android
title: Determine if Sensitive Data are sent to Firebase Analytics with Frida
id: MASTG-DEMO-00de3
code: [kotlin]
test: MASTG-TEST-02te3
---

## Sample

> This sample demonstrates an Android application that sends sensitive user information to Firebase Analytics using the `logEvent` method. The app collects the user's blood type and user ID, which are considered sensitive data (health information), and transmits them to Firebase Analytics.

Reviewer: Let's use the language from the Data Safety section. This is [data sharing](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10787469?hl=en#sharing&zippy=%2Cdata-sharing):

> From your app libraries and SDKs. Transferring data collected from your app off a user’s device directly to a third party via libraries and/or SDKs included in your app.

```suggestion
This sample collects the following [user data](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10787469?hl=en#types&zippy=%2Cdata-types) and sends it to Firebase Analytics using the `logEvent` method:

- User ID (**Data type:** User IDs, **Category:** Personal info)
- Blood type (**Data type:** Health info, **Category:** Health and fitness)
```

> Note: We cannot perform this test with static analysis because the parameters sent to Firebase Analytics are constructed dynamically at runtime.

{{ MainActivity.kt # MastgTest.kt # build.gradle.kts.libs }}

## Steps

1. Install the app on a device (@MASTG-TECH-0005)
2. Make sure you have @MASTG-TOOL-0001 installed on your machine and the frida-server running on the device
3. Run `run.sh` to spawn the app with Frida
4. Select a blood type from the dropdown
5. Click the **Start** button
6. Stop the script by pressing `Ctrl+C` and/or `q` to quit the Frida CLI

{{ hooks.js # run.sh }}

## Observation

The output shows all instances of `logEvent` calls to Firebase Analytics SDK that were found at runtime, along with the parameters being sent. A backtrace is also provided to help identify the location in the code.

{{ output.json }}

## Evaluation

> This test **fails** because sensitive data (`blood_type` parameter) is being sent to Firebase Analytics via the `logEvent` method for a particular user (`user_id` parameter).

Reviewer: Adjust to the changes in "Sample" to align with the Data Safety section. Also this can only fail if it's not declared in the Data Safety section and/or the privacy policy. We need a technique to get the Data Safety section and another to get the privacy policy.

Author: Together with the comment from [here](https://github.com/OWASP/mastg/pull/3485/changes#r2590121114), we would also need to use SAST for references according to 00te1.

That implied that from a dynamic test demo, it would have:
1. **New**: Collect info about data safety
2. **New**: Collect info if we use i.e. Firebase
3. **Existing**: Validating sensitive data collection dynamically (health info)

Proceed with the adjustments?
